I've got news Tian and then the internet
was a big one because the internet came
along and I started watching those
videos that a lot of them that PETA puts
up of factory farming oh and hireable
it's horrible it's not just terrible
it's it's like it doesn't make any sense
it's like this is this is like human
beings at their very worst
[Music]
we've treated these things as like the
the most not just as a commodity but
we've ignored their feelings and their
thoughts and their that the fact that
they have instincts and needs and that
we've stopped them at these tiny little
cages it's a sickness
I've understand I participated in a
storm of controversy today I
participated in not one but two massive
debates on this court and I won I won
both I won the first one while
bench-pressing
over 220 pounds I forget it was maybe
230 but tonight I was distracted I was
having this debate on discord and the
second one well I was doing push-ups and
upright row with 105 pounds but I won
that also anyway this is what the second
debate and Melissa is off camera but
she's just asked me a few questions
about this so the second debate which we
talked about here had to do with
second-hand leather and secondhand
morality a very small number of vegans
want to make excuses for second-hand
leather
keeping retaining and using items that
are second hand leather themselves I
don't dig second-hand morality and I'm
morally consistent on this because I'm
also against second-hand pets and
secondhand horses I don't care that you
didn't buy the horse in the first place
if you keep the horse as a captive and
you ride on its back and you feed it hay
and you take it to the vet you're doing
all the things of that horse ownership
and Tails whether you call this
exploitation or use or just ownership
it's not vegan doesn't matter that you
got that horse for free it doesn't
matter if it was a gift it doesn't
matter if you bought it secondhand
doesn't matter if it was a rescue animal
does not matter if you stole it right
and this applies for me also directly to
leather if you broke into the leather
store with a gun and stole it at
gunpoint it's still leather
you're still acquiring owning and using
leather and if in as much as veganism is
opposed to the use of animal products
it's opposed to the use of leather
whether you stole it whether you got us
a hand-me-down like was given to you for
free by your older brother or you got it
secondhand buying leather at a
secondhand shop is still buying leather
and
again even if you eliminate the buying
stage you're still participating in this
cycle of suffering at all the other
stages you're still participating in the
market mechanism and the ethical
decision here just like anyone else but
just without that first stage of paying
money into the system now if your
version of vegan ethics hangs totally on
the moment of purchase you may not see
it that way so those the people have
just been debating with but for me it's
the whole Gestalt right ultimately so I
have used this example for on the
channel if someone is putting cocaine
down on a table and then they have to
get up and leave the nightclubs there's
a nightclub and somebody's Pro this
cocaine I don't care that the cocaine is
there for me to use for free someone
else might say oh well this cocaine
would go to waste
I personally ethically wouldn't purchase
the cocaine but given that it's free
here given that someone else has in
effect bought the cocaine they would use
it for free from my perspective that's
what you could call a free rider fallacy
the fact that someone else has committed
murder or someone else's committed rape
or someone else's purchased cocaine if
you regard it as morally bad you're not
looking for your opportunity to jump on
and take advantage of that for free if
you regard the production of leather as
morally bad the purchase and sale of
leather is morally bad you're not
looking for your opportunity to be a
moral free writer and jump on and get it
get it for free say oh well somebody
else already killed it somebody else
already packaged and sold it I can get
it secondhand or I can get it as a
hand-me-down great it was my chance to
wear leather and use it know that's
morally incoherent I'm not into
secondhand leather I'm not into
secondhand morality now there's a
flipside of this which is what my
girlfriend Melissa asked me about which
is about the vegan not being in the role
of the recipient but the role of the
donor so when people first go vegan
they often own meat they have some meat
in their fridge they own dairy they own
eggs they own leather and the question
is what should they do with these
objects now I have jokingly say to
people when they ask me get a shovel
goat in your backyard take a grave and
bury it I'm only half joking because
this is indirectly my opinion if you
make the decision to take this leather
and give it to your brother Tom you're
making the moral judgement oh I would
never wear
this leather I would never this is
immoral for me but for someone like you
it's acceptable I mean this is looking
down your nose at Tom saying well for an
inferior person like you Tom this is
okay
same with cocaine if I have if let's say
somehow I've ended up with a bag of
cocaine in my possession am I gonna turn
around and hand it to my own daughter
and say well look I have no use of this
I would never use cocaine but maybe you
and your friends can have fun with it
no that's totally morally incoherent
again the the issue of it being my
daughter obviously is more evocative
because there's an issue of moral
responsibility but my point is were all
morally responsible for each other
doesn't matter if it's my daughter or my
brother or my friend from high school or
my high school principal go to the high
school principal and say hey you you you
can maybe you can make use of this
cocaine if you think cocaine is bad you
don't want to use it yourself
you don't want to encourage others to
use it you're not gonna enable others to
use it if I think wearing leather is bad
I'm not gonna use it myself I'm not
gonna give it to my brother Tom etc now
actually burying in your backyard is not
that great not that great to use I think
great a solution it's not not that great
way to get rid of it but I think for for
a lot of us I did come into veganism as
an ecological be canceling Melissa and I
have in common
um but I think there's a false aesthetic
of waste and waste avoidance involved
here where people say they don't want to
waste things and then this justifies
doing something that's immoral so for me
it's the same with the cocaine oh well
this cocaine is gonna go to waste if you
don't snort it up or use it because
someone else left it here that you
didn't buy it you didn't plan it this
way but it's here so now you can be a
free rider on no cocaine belongs in the
garbage good for me it's morally
positive to see cocaine swept off the
table and thrown out with the trash good
it belongs in the trash that's morally
positive it's not morally neutral that's
a good thing cheese belongs in the
garbage good I don't regret that I don't
say I don't say oh what a waste this
should have been eaten by a human being
no that's the opposite of what I believe
I don't want to eat it myself
I don't think anyone should eat it I'm
morally opposed to be bleeding cheese so
when cheese gets put in the garbage it's
not a waste at all right this is that's
a waste I regarded that's morally
positive I'm sorry so on so on
line leather I mean now my argument on
this again is not based on the symbolic
value of leather oh that's also
interesting if you are morally opposed
to rape you won't be going around
wearing a t-shirt that says rape is
normal rape is okay rape there's no big
deal it's morally incoherent this is the
symbolic argument that people like Gary
France they own a lien on where they say
oh by wearing leather you're sending up
the signal wearing leather as normal
wearing leather as acceptable now I
think that's interesting kind of window
dressing I think it's an interesting
element of living in a culture and it's
there's some truth to that if everyone
around you is wearing fur it becomes
socially normalizing if everyone around
you is smoking cigarettes it's social
norm I mean if you take a stand and say
no smoking cigarettes is wrong then
you're also not against cigarettes going
in the garbage
you're not regarding that as a waste
great let's let's throw let's throw more
cigarettes in the garbage they're not
going to waste if they're if they're
getting thrown out however so it's not
based on an onsen Baalak reasoning in
that sense but it is based on an
acceptance that one there is no hard and
fast moral distinction between acquiring
something new and acquiring it
secondhand
whether it's secondhand leather second
and rape second and murder second and
cocaine now I just want to insert here
the caveat I can recognize that
something is the lesser of two evils but
the lesser of two evils is still evil I
do think it's different if you're given
a leather jacket as a hand-me-down from
your older brother I understand it's not
the same as you going to buy there are
people who inherit fur coats from their
grandparents it's a hundred year old for
co.design I understand that's less evil
than going to a store now and buying it
or going to store an ordering one and
saying yeah kill that animal slit its
throat and make it into this style oak
oh no no I want this style so make sure
it's an extra gray animal and kill it
and I want them vertical not
horizontally in this kind of [ __ ] you
can hear people talking about this as
part of other furniture a lot of stuff
is made to order
my mom's fur coat was was made to order
I know I'm unless she's got rid of it my
mom used to go around in a fur coat
I remember that and the fact that
something is the lesser of two evils
doesn't mean it's morally neutral and
again wasting something throwing away
something that you think is evil from my
perspective is
morally positive so I just got the
argument for example oh but if you let
it go to waste like if you don't eat
this leftover cheese this leftover pizza
if you don't eat this roadkill animal
then you're gonna go out and buy more
broccoli sindhu harder and I argue about
no I see buying broccoli is morally
positive oh if you don't recycle these
secondhand leather shoes then you're
gonna go buy a new pair of vegan shoes
and that's some other but no buying
vegan shoes is morally positive and
again whether it's direct or indirect if
it's a knock-on defect for your brother
Tom or something Tom also you should
encourage him to go ahead and buy vegan
shoes whether you're the the donor or
the recipient ultimately if you're
trying to stamp out the use of
cigarettes a lot of cigarettes are gonna
end up in the garbage trying to stamp
out the use of leather shoes a lot of
leather shoes are gonna end up in the
garbage if you call that a waste I think
you're in a a morally coherent position
well use it all right okay like under 10
minutes I think that's a wrap for me
it's a really morally simple issue for
someone like a natural vegan it's more
complex because the natural vegan
doesn't oppose all animal use she allows
the use of animals as pets and then in
an allegory to that she says you're
allowed to own a cow and keep it in
captivity and exploit its produce milk
in as much as you treat the cow as well
as you treat a cat or dog for me it's
all animal use those animals don't want
to be a toy or a plaything for human
amusement that cow doesn't want to live
in a shed in captivity and produce milk
free to consume none of that's morally
coherent and using animals to produce
clothing out of them or to produce food
out of them is immoral even if you
somehow got the animal secondhand baos
yen